docs(how-tos): compute instances MTA-1447 (#51)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/instances/api-cli/creating-managing-instances-with-cliv2.mdx

---
title: Creating and managing an Instance with CLI (v2)
description: This page explains how to create and manage an Instance with CLI (v2)
dates:
  validation: 2021-08-05
  posted: 2021-08-05
---

> Scaleway Instances provide you with resources to develop, test code and deploy your applications in no time. Instances are designed for modern workflows. They are with you from prototyping to large-scale deployment. You can create and manage your Instances from the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/login), via the API or via the Scaleway Command Line Interface.

Author: ```suggestion
Scaleway Instances provide you with resources to develop, test code and deploy your applications in no time. Instances are designed for modern workflows. They are with you from prototyping to large-scale deployment. You can [create](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance) and manage your Instances from the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/login), via the API or via the Scaleway Command Line Interface.
```

## Scaleway Command Line Interface Overview

[The Scaleway Command Line Interface (CLI)](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli) allows you to pilot your Scaleway infrastructure directly from your terminal, providing a faster way to administer and monitor your resources. Scaleway CLI is easy to set up and use, and an essential tool for operating efficiently in your cloud environment. The CLI provides many functionalities, including the ability to create and manage Instances. 

<Message type="requirement">

  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com/)
  - You have [created an Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/)
  - You have configured your [SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
  - You have generated your [API key](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
  - You have downloaded and installed the [Scaleway CLI](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli#scaleway-cli-v2)

</Message>

## Configuring the CLI

> 1. You must configure the Scaleway CLI on your machine. Open a terminal and type the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Open a terminal and type the following command, to configure the Scaleway CLI on your machine:
```

## Scaleway Command Line Interface Overview

[The Scaleway Command Line Interface (CLI)](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli) allows you to pilot your Scaleway infrastructure directly from your terminal, providing a faster way to administer and monitor your resources. Scaleway CLI is easy to set up and use, and an essential tool for operating efficiently in your cloud environment. The CLI provides many functionalities, including the ability to create and manage Instances. 

<Message type="requirement">

  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com/)
  - You have [created an Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/)
  - You have configured your [SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
  - You have generated your [API key](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
  - You have downloaded and installed the [Scaleway CLI](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli#scaleway-cli-v2)

>   - You have configured the [Scaleway CLI](/compute/bare-metal-cloud/api-cli/bare-metal-with-cli/#-Configuring-the-CLI)

Author: ```suggestion

```

---

> title: Creating and managing an Instance with CLI (v2)

Reviewer: You will need to add the page to the side menu.

description: This page explains how to create and manage an Instance with CLI (v2)
dates:
  validation: 2021-08-05
  posted: 2021-08-05
---

> Scaleway's Instances provide you with resources to develop, test code and deploy your applications in no time. Instances are designed for modern workflows. They are with you from prototyping to large-scale deployment. You can create and manage your Instances from the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/login), via the API or via the Scaleway Command Line Interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaleway Instances provide you with resources to develop, test code, and deploy your applications in no time. Instances are designed for modern workflows. They are with you from prototyping to large-scale deployment. You can create and manage your Instances from the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/login), via the API or via the Scaleway Command Line Interface.
```

  - You have [created an Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/)
  - You have configured your [SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
  - You have generated your [API key](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
  - You have downloaded and installed the [Scaleway CLI](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli#scaleway-cli-v2)
  - You have configured the [Scaleway CLI](/compute/bare-metal-cloud/api-cli/bare-metal-with-cli/#-Configuring-the-CLI)

</Message>

## Configuring the CLI

1. You must configure the Scaleway CLI on your machine. Open a terminal and type the following command:

  `scw init`
  
  If you have already configured the CLI, you will see a message like the following:

  ```
  Current config is located at /path/to/config.yaml
  access_key: <YOUR ACCESS KEY>
  secret_key: <YOUR SECRET KEY>
  default_organization_id: <YOUR ORGANIZATION ID>
  default_project_id: <YOUR PROJECT ID>
  default_region: <YOUR DEFAULT REGION, eg fr-par>
  default_zone: <YOUR DEFAULT ZONE, eg fr-par-1>

  Do you want to override the current config? (Y/n):  
  ```

> 2. Unless you want to change your configuration, you can type `n` and go directly to the Creating an Instance step of this tutorial.

Reviewer 2: lien pour le "creating an instance" maybe?

  If you have not yet configured the CLI, you will be guided through the configuration process via a series of questions:

  ```
  Enter a valid secret-key or an email
  ```

3. Enter either the email address for your account (you will then be asked for your password), or your [API Secret Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/):

  ```
  To improve this tool we rely on diagnostic and usage data.
  Sending such data is optional and can be disabled at any time by running "scw config set send-telemetry=false".
  Do you want to send usage statistics and diagnostics? (Y/n):
  ```

> 4. Type `y` or `n` and hit enter.

Author: ```suggestion
Type `y` or `n` and hit enter.
```

> 4. Type `y` or `n` and hit enter.

Reviewer: here I suggest the same as we discussed for the k8s doc. I think you can remove the numbered steps.

  ```
  To fully enjoy Scaleway CLI we recommend you install autocomplete support in your shell.
  Do you want to install autocomplete? (Y/n):
  ```

> 5. Type `y` or `n` and hit enter.

Author: ```suggestion
Type `y` or `n` and hit enter.
```

  ```
  To enable autocomplete, scw needs to update your shell configuration.
  What type of shell are you using (default: zsh):
  ```

> 6. Hit enter if the default shell type is already correct for you. Otherwise, enter your shell type and hit enter.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Hit enter if the default shell type is already correct for you. Otherwise, enter your shell type and hit enter.
```

  ```
  To enable autocomplete we need to append to /Users/yourusername/.zshrc the following lines:
  # Scaleway CLI autocomplete initialization.
  eval "$(scw autocomplete script shell=zsh)"
  Do you want to proceed with these changes? (Y/n):
  ```

> 7. Type `y` or `n` and hit enter. This should complete the configuration process:

Author: ```suggestion
Type `y` or `n` and hit enter. This should complete the configuration process:
```

  Hostname                cli-srv-naughty-stonebraker
  Image.ID                12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  Image.Name              Ubuntu 20.04 Focal Fossa
  Image.Arch              x86_64
  Image.CreationDate      4 months ago
  Image.ModificationDate  4 months ago
  Image.ExtraVolumes      0
  Image.FromServer        -
  Image.Organization      12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  Image.Public            true
  Image.RootVolume        12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  Image.State             available
  Image.Project           12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  Image.Zone              fr-par-2
  Protected               false
  PublicIP.ID             12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  PublicIP.Address        51.159.163.11
  PublicIP.Dynamic        false
  ModificationDate        now
  State                   archived
  Bootscript              x86_64 mainline 4.4.230 rev1
  BootType                local
  Volumes                 1
  SecurityGroup.ID        12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  SecurityGroup.Name      Default security group
  StateDetail             -
  Arch                    x86_64
  Zone                    fr-par-2
  ```

> <Message type="note">

Author: ```suggestion

```

> <Message type="note">

Reviewer: this message is repeated, I think

>  - If you want to know what different types of Instances are available in a given zone, use the following command:`scw instance server-type list zone=xx-xxx-x`. For example, if you want to see the availability for Instances in Paris, use `scw instance server-type list zone=fr-par-1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to know what different types of Instances are available in a given zone, use the following command:`scw instance server-type list zone=xx-xxx-x`. For example, if you want to see the availability for Instances in Paris, use `scw instance server-type list zone=fr-par-1`.
```

>   If you want to know what different types of Instances are available in a given zone, use the following command:`scw instance server-type list zone=xx-xxx-x`. For example, if you want to see the availability for Instances in Paris, use `scw instance server-type list zone=fr-par-1`.

Author: ```suggestion

```

> </Message>

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Creating an Instance local volume

1. Type the following command in your terminal to create an Instance volume with a size of 50GB: 

  `scw instance volume create size=50GB name=my-volume`

  You will see an output like the following:

  ```
  ID                12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  Name              my-volume
  ExportURI         -
  Size              50 GB
  VolumeType        l_ssd
  CreationDate      now
  ModificationDate  now
  Organization      12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  Project           12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
  State             available
  Zone              fr-par-1
  ```

2. Write down the ID of your Instance, as you will need it in the next steps. 

## Creating and attaching a Block Volume to an Instance 

<Message type="important">

  Block volumes are only available for `DEV1`, `GP1` and `RENDER` offers.

</Message>

> 1. Type the following command in your terminal to create a Block Volume: 

Reviewer 2: ajouter une definition de Block Volume (lienversconcept?)

> 1. Type the following command in your terminal to create a Block Volume: 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Type the following command in your terminal to create a [Block Volume](/compute/instances/concepts/#block-volumes/): 
```

Server.Image.Public            true
Server.Image.RootVolume        12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
Server.Image.State             available
Server.Image.Project           12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
Server.Image.Zone              fr-par-1
Server.Protected               false
Server.PrivateIP               10.194.79.129
Server.PublicIP.ID             12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
Server.PublicIP.Address        12.345.678.123
Server.PublicIP.Dynamic        false
Server.ModificationDate        4 days ago
Server.State                   running
Server.Location                fr-par-1
Server.IPv6.Address            2001:bc8:610:6300::1
Server.IPv6.Gateway            2001:bc8:610:6300::
Server.IPv6.Netmask            64
Server.Bootscript              x86_64 mainline 4.4.230 rev1
Server.BootType                local
Server.Volumes                 2
Server.SecurityGroup.ID        12345678-1234-1234-4321-123456789123
Server.SecurityGroup.Name      Default security group
Server.StateDetail             booted
Server.Arch                    x86_64
Server.Zone                    fr-par-1
```

## Deleting an Instance

> Type the following command in your terminal and replace "you-server" with the ID of your server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type the following command in your terminal and replace "your-server" with the ID of your server. 
```
